So pronouns basically exist to make language shorter.

Have a look at these sentences:
    3 smart girls work at Tesla, they are very efficient workers.
    3 smart guys work at Tesla, they are very efficient workers.
    3 smart robots work at Tesla, they are very efficient workers.

Instead of saying for example "3 smart girls are very efficient workers", which is kinda long, we can simply say
"they are very efficient workers", and pronoun "they" will be translated in your head into "3 smart girls".
Note that whether it's about female humans or male humans, or genderless robots, we use pronoun "they".
Pronoun "they" is just a replacement of a plural noun or a plural noun and its description like in this case.
It has nothing to do with gender.

But what about these sentences?
    One smart girl works at Tesla, she is a very efficient worker.
    One smart guy works at Tesla, he is a very efficient worker.
    One smart robot works at Tesla, it is a very efficient worker.

Why do we need three different pronouns here? 
- Ask the god or the evolution, whoever you think has created such a messy thing as humanity.

So let's create a sigular pronoun that works just like "they":
    One smart girl works at Tesla, un is a very efficient worker.
    One smart guy works at Tesla, un is a very efficient worker.
    One smart robot works at Tesla, un is a very efficient worker.

But here's a little problem, check this sentence:
    A guy and a girl had breakfast together, then un went to the gym and un went to the shop.

We have two *un* and we don't know which one refers to what noun. So let's create a new rule:
First pronoun replaces first noun, and second pronoun replaces second noun.
*a guy* is first noun, *a girl* is a second noun, and so accordingly, *un went to the gym* means
*a guy went to the gym*, and *un went to the shop* means *a girl went to the shop*

We replaced gender pronouns with a pronoun that refers to any singular noun, and now let's replace singular and plural
pronouns by a pronoun that simply refers to any noun.

he
she  
it     --> un
xe
foe            --> un

         they

We delete "they" and pronoun "un" is now a replacement for any noun.

EXAMPLE:
  A robot and 3 girls had breakfast together, then un went to the gym and un went to the shop.
